The purpose of this file is to document the origins and licenses for
the bundled binary jar files.

=====================================================================
SLFJ4

http://www.slf4j.org

slf4j-api-1.5.6.jar
slf4j-log4j12-1.5.6.jar

Copyright (c) 2004-2008 QOS.ch All rights reserved. Permission is
hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this
software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software. 

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

=====================================================================
ABCL

http://common-lisp.net/project/armedbear/

abcl.jar

ABCL is covered by the GNU General Public License with Classpath
exception, meaning that you can use ABCL in your application without
the requirement to open the sources to your application.

See gpl.html in this directory.  The Classpath exception is as
follows:

    Linking this library statically or dynamically with other modules
    is making a combined work based on this library. Thus, the terms
    and conditions of the GNU General Public License cover the whole
    combination.

    As a special exception, the copyright holders of this library give
    you permission to link this library with independent modules to
    produce an executable, regardless of the license terms of these
    independent modules, and to copy and distribute the resulting
    executable under terms of your choice, provided that you also
    meet, for each linked independent module, the terms and conditions
    of the license of that module. An independent module is a module
    which is not derived from or based on this library. If you modify
    this library, you may extend this exception to your version of the
    library, but you are not obligated to do so. If you do not wish to
    do so, delete this exception statement from your version.

Source code for ABCL is available in the blow source distribution.

=====================================================================
JENA

arq-2.8.1.jar
jena-2.6.2.jar

http://jena.sourceforge.net

Unless otherwise noted, the following copyright statement applies:
 
Â© Copyright 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009
Hewlett-Packard Development Company, LP

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

   1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
   2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
   copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
   disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
   with the distribution.
   3. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
   products derived from this software without specific prior written
   permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Jena includes software developed by the Apache Software Foundation
(http://www.apache.org/).

Jena includes RDF schemes from DCMI:

    Portions of this software may use RDF schemas Copyright (c) 2006
    DCMI, the Dublin Core Metadata Initiative. These are licensed
    under the Creative Commons 3.0 Attribution license. 

Jena is built on top of other sub-systems which we gratefully
acknowledge: details of these systems and their version numbers.

YourKit is kindly supporting open source projects with its
full-featured Java Profiler. YourKit, LLC is the creator of innovative
and intelligent tools for profiling Java and .NET applications. Take a
look at YourKit's leading software products: YourKit Java Profiler and
YourKit .NET Profiler.

=====================================================================
JENA IRI LIBRARY

iri-0.7.jar

http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=40417

The JENA IRI LIBRARY is distributed under the same terms as JENA, 
above.

=====================================================================
XERCES

xercesImpl-2.7.1.jar

http://xml.apache.org/xerces2-j/

XERCES is distributed under the terms of the Apache 2 License.  See
LICENSE-2.0.txt in this directory.

=====================================================================
LOG4J

log4j-1.2.12.jar

http://logging.apache.org/log4j/

LOG4J is distributed under the terms of the Apache 2 License.  See
LICENSE-2.0.txt in this directory.

=====================================================================
JENA IRI LIBRARY

iri-0.7.jar

http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=40417

The JENA IRI LIBRARY is distributed under the same terms as JENA, 
above.

=====================================================================
